- [Instructor] The lifecycle of a Spring application
explains the various states your application goes through
while being managed by the Spring framework.
It is critical for Spring developers to fully understand
this lifecycle and in my opinion,
this is the meat and potatoes of this entire course.
So let's talk about why the knowledge of the framework
is so critical for a Spring developer.
Knowledge of the lifecycle increases
overall knowledge of Spring.
As you learn how the parts fit together in the lifecycle,
you will gain understanding of how to use the framework
in a way the designers intended it to be used.
It also will improve the extensibility
of the framework for you.
You will learn how to write custom processors
that interact with beans or the bean factory,
at appropriate times in the lifecycle
to add behavior to your application
or to just individual classes.
It can also aid in troubleshooting
by providing a baseline for debugging application issues,
because everything in Spring is a proxy,
debugging step wise can be very challenging however.
Knowledge of the life cycle can help you better determine
where to break your code
and where to investigate for issues.
Another aspect of learning about the details
of a framework like Spring,
is it enhances your professional development,
something all developers should reach for,
as engineers we don't spend enough time
understanding the details of our craft as a whole
in my opinion.
Learning is the key to that, hence why you're here.
This level of understanding of any framework,
especially Spring, provides deeper knowledge
of the tools that we use,
which of course makes us more capable
of using those very tools.
It also allows us to have more educated discussions
with our peers about the tools,
it can also allow us to have discussions
that can be fruitful with the entire community
and not just our peers at the company we work for.
Finally, it can help us make better architectural decisions,
I have used my knowledge of Spring and proxies
to design toolkits that allow us to inject
desired behavior like encryption, audit logging,
and various other cross cutting concerns
on applications that I have been involved with.
I know it shouldn't really need to be mentioned,
but Spring is an open source software project,
and as such, it needs a community.
Knowledge of the framework allows
for much better interactions with this community.
This can come from simple tasks
like filing more detailed bug reports,
it can also come into play with detailed discussions
around best practices, speaking at conferences,
or other educational discussions.
This knowledge can also help you be
a better open source developer,
and contribute to the framework that you use,
Spring as is most open source software projects,
driven by the community.
There's usually a corporate back
around big frameworks like Spring
but that doesn't mean that they ignore their roots,
contributing in open source is your way
of helping the next generation,
as well as the current one of developers.
Knowledge of the lifecycle and the framework
can make this a shorter journey from problem to solution,
and you may find you're able to fix the bugs
that you find and help other developers even quicker.